Date          : 2023-01-27
Title         : Walkability model using dynamic multilayer method in transit hub design in West Jakarta
Keywords      : Dynamic multilayer method, Agent-based modeling, Shortest path algorithm A-star, Laplacian smoothing, Evolutionary multi-objective optimization, Data clustering, Transit hub, Public spaces
Courseworks   : Thesis
Publisher     : Architecture ITB
Abstract      : The DKI Jakarta Provincial Government has set a goal to establish a sustainable transportation system in Jakarta, which has been recognized by the receipt of the Sustainable Transportation Award from ITDP in 2021. However, Jakarta must continuously strive to improve its transportation services, particularly in West Jakarta, which serves as an international gateway due to its proximity to the Soekarno-Hatta International Airport, a well-established toll network, strategic roads connecting different provinces, and intra-city transportation facilities such as TransJakarta, KRL, and MRT.

The lack of proper planning in transportation services can lead to various issues within the city, such as traffic congestion, air pollution, and crime. To address these issues, a designated transit hub that will be integrated with public transportation and public spaces, which aligns with SDG goal number 11 and the government's vision and mission. This thesis aims to examine the issues, methods, and solutions that are necessary to identify the crucial issues that exist and impact the area and site.

The author will use the dynamic multilayer (DML) method to tackle the complex problems encountered with studies, focusing specifically on human movement. The DML method comprises different layers, each using its methods, including data distillation and sub setting to filter data for model abstraction, agent-based modeling (ABM) for dynamic modeling of human characters, Laplacian smoothing for aggregation of ABM results, search for the shortest route using the A-star algorithm (SPA+A*) for preparing an algorithm with fast and targeted solution results, multi-objective optimization (MOO) with the NSGA-2 algorithm to solve conflicting multi-objective problems, and data clustering to filter the best solutions according to the priority arrangement that is not calculated in the MOO.

The author will then use the best solution as a guideline for designing transit hubs and public spaces, taking into consideration circulation based on the axis created from SPA+A* route trends and agent characters in ABM simulations, as well as the placement of public spaces based on the results of clustering solutions from MOO simulations. The design will be based on the selected guidelines and will feature the main concepts of movement of people, connectivity, and green spaces.

The design is expected to serve as a solution in case studies and improve the quality of life for urban communities.

